##  ASSIGNMENT 5 (CORE JAVA)  ##
------------------------------------------------------------------
(1)
-JVM (Java Virtual Machine) is the platform-dependent component in the Java ecosystem, as it is responsible for executing the Java code on a specific operating system.
 JVM is a software. It is a specification that provides runtime environment in which java bytecode can be executed. It do not exist physically.
 JVMs are not same for all hardware and software, for example for windows os JVM is different and for Linux JVM is different.
-JRE (Java Runtime Environment) is also platform-dependent and includes the JVM as well as other necessary resources for running Java applications,
 such as the class libraries and the Java class loader.
-JDK (Java Development Kit) is a complete and self-contained development environment for Java, including the JRE, the Java compiler,
 and other development tools. It is also platform-dependent, meaning that there are different versions for different operating systems.
 --JVM, JRE and JDK are platform dependent because configuration of each OS differs. But, Java is platform independent.
So, in summary:
JVM is platform-dependent
JRE is platform-dependent
JDK is platform-dependent.

(2)
Java code is considered platform-independent because it is compiled into an intermediate form called bytecode, 
which can be executed on any platform that has a JVM (Java Virtual Machine) installed. The JVM acts as an interpreter for the bytecode, 
translating it into machine-readable instructions that can be executed on the specific platform.
 This means that a Java program written on one platform can run on any other platform with a JVM, without the need for recompilation.
This platform-independent nature of Java is achieved by abstracting away the underlying hardware and operating system dependencies,
allowing Java programs to be written once and run anywhere. 
This makes Java a popular choice for building cross-platform applications and for developing applications that need to run 
on a variety of hardware and software configurations.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(4)
-Access specifier and access modifier are terms that are used interchangeably in Java to refer to the level of access or visibility that is granted to 
members (fields, methods, etc.) of a class.
An access specifier determines who can access the members of a class. 
Java provides three levels of access:
Public: Members marked as public can be accessed from anywhere in the code i.e, same class,same package,sub class and other packages.
Private: Members marked as private can only be accessed within the class in which they are declared.
Protected: Members marked as protected can be accessed within the class in which they are declared, as well as any subclasses and in the same package.

-An access modifier, on the other hand, is a broader term that encompasses other types of restrictions that can be placed on members, such as final, static, 
abstract, etc. These access modifiers can be used in combination with the access specifiers to further restrict the visibility and usage of the members.
So, to summarize:
Access specifier determines the visibility of members within the class and its subclasses.
Access modifier encompasses access specifiers and other restrictions that can be applied to members.

(6)
We cannot have multiple public static void main(String[] args) methods in a single class in Java with same arguments.
But, we can have multiple main methods in a same class i.e, we can overload main method but we can not override it.
So , we can have many main methods in a class.

(7)
-Method Overloading can be defined as a feature in which a class can have more than one method having the same name if and only if they
 differ by number of parameters or the type of parameters or both, then they may or may not have same return type. 
Method overloading is one of the ways that java support Polymorphism.
Yes, We can overload the main method in java but JVM only calls the original main method, it will never call our overloaded main method.
-Method Overriding: Whenever we do inheritance in java then if a method in subclass has the same name and type signature as a method 
in its parent class or superclass, then it is said that the method in subclass is overriding the method of parent class. 
Method overriding is one of the way that java supports run time Polymorphism.
No, we cannot override main method of java because a static method cannot be overridden.
The static method in java is associated with class whereas the non-static method is associated with an object. 
Static belongs to the class area, static methods don’t need an object to be called. Static methods can be called directly by using the
 classname ( classname.static_method_name() ).
So, whenever we try to execute the derived class static method, it will automatically execute the base class static method.
Therefore, it is not possible to override the main method in java.

(8)
No, you cannot write the main method as private, protected, or default in Java.The main method must be declared as public in order to be 
accessible from outside the class, and to be recognized as the starting point of the Java program by the Java Virtual Machine (JVM).
The public access modifier on the main method allows it to be called from outside the class, including by the JVM when it starts executing the program. 
If the main method is declared as private, protected, or default, it will not be accessible from outside the class and the JVM will not be able to find and 
execute the method, causing the program to not run.

(9)
In Java, the public static void main(String[] args) method serves as the entry point for the Java Virtual Machine (JVM) to start executing a program. 
So, having a main method is necessary to run a Java program.
However, there are some alternatives to executing code without a main method, for example:
-Using a static initializer block: You can write code inside a static initializer block, which is a block of code enclosed in curly braces and 
prefixed with the static keyword. The code inside a static initializer block is executed when the class is loaded by the JVM, 
and it can be used to run code without a main method.
-Creating a class with a constructor: You can write code inside a constructor of a class. 
The code inside a constructor is executed when an instance of the class is created, and it can be used to run code without a main method.
-Using an interface: You can create an interface that defines a method with no body. Then, you can implement the interface in a class and 
provide a concrete implementation for the method. When the class is loaded by the JVM, the method will be executed.
 It's important to note that in these alternatives, the code will be executed automatically when the JVM loads the class, 
and you won't have control over the arguments passed to the code. If you need to pass arguments or have more control over the execution of your code, 
you will need to use a main method.

(10)
No, you cannot change the return type of the public static void main(String[] args) method in Java. 
The main method must have a return type of void in order to be recognized by the Java Virtual Machine (JVM) as the entry point for a Java program.
The void return type indicates that the main method does not return a value. If you try to change the return type to a different data type, 
such as int or String, the JVM will not be able to find and execute the method, causing the program to not run.
It's important to keep the signature of the main method as public static void main(String[] args) to ensure that it can be recognized and executed by the JVM 
as the starting point for the program.

(11)
strictfp is a keyword in Java used to indicate that a method or a class should use strict floating-point calculations.
 A strict floating-point calculation is a calculation that follows the rules defined by the IEEE 754 standard for floating-point arithmetic,
 which is a standard for representing real numbers in a computer.
By using the strictfp keyword, you ensure that your code will produce the same results on different platforms, regardless of the
 underlying hardware and operating system. This is particularly important for applications that require high precision, 
such as scientific or financial applications.
The strictfp keyword can be applied to both a method and a class. If applied to a class, it means that all floating-point calculations performed 
within the class will use strict floating-point arithmetic. If applied to a method, it means that only the floating-point calculations performed 
within the method will use strict floating-point arithmetic.
It's worth noting that the strictfp keyword is optional and not widely used in Java programming, as most Java applications
do not require strict floating-point calculations.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(2)

class VariablesTypes{
   static int staticVar = 3;  //static variable
   int result = 0;       //instance variable
  
   public int add(){
     int num1 = 5, num2 = 6;   //local variable
     result = num1 + num2;
     staticVar = num1 + num2;
     return result;
   }
   
  public static void main(String args[]){
    System.out.println("Static variable value before is :" +staticVar);
    VariablesTypes var = new VariablesTypes();
    System.out.println("Addition of local variables stored in instance variable is :" +var.add());
    int staticVar = VariablesTypes.staticVar;
    System.out.println("Static variable value after is :" +staticVar);

  }
}

//Output:

Static variable value before is :3
Addition of local variables stored in instance variable is :11
Static variable value after is :11


(3)

class DatatypesAddition{
   public int addInt(int num1 , int num2){
      int sum = num1 + num2;
     return sum;
   }
   public static void main(String args[]){
      DatatypesAddition addition = new DatatypesAddition();
      System.out.println("Addition of 2 integers is :" +addition.addInt(19,13));

   }
}
 //Output:

Addition of 2 integers is :32




